# Active Directory Research Over the Years

Active Directory has been a major area of focus for security researchers for the past decade or so. Starting in 2014, we began to see many tools and much research emerge, leading to the discovery of common attacks and techniques still used today. Below is a timeline of events highlighting the discovery of some of the most impactful attacks and flaws by incredible researchers, as well as the release of widely used tools by penetration testers to this day. While many techniques have been discovered over the years, AD (and now Azure AD) presents a vast attack surface, and new attacks are still being discovered. New tools emerge that both penetration testers and defenders must have a firm grasp of to assist organizations with the difficult but critical task of securing AD environments.

As we can see from the timeline below, critical flaws are continuously being discovered. The noPac attack was discovered in December of 2021 and is the most recent critical AD attack that has been discovered at the time of writing (January of 2022). As we continue into 2022, we will surely see new tools and attacks released and new methods for exploiting and chaining together known vulnerabilities. We must stay on top of the latest and greatest Active Directory research to best help customers secure it or secure it ourselves.

This is by no means a comprehensive list of all the excellent research and tools that have been released over the years, but this is a snapshot of many of the most consequential ones seen over the past decade. The hard work of the researchers listed in this timeline (and many others) has led to remarkable discoveries and the creation of tools that can help both penetration testers and defenders dig deep into Active Directory environments. With them, it's easier to find both obvious and obscure, high-risk flaws before attackers do.
